[Music]
why graphene will soon take over the
world people get fuel right out of thin
air the shortage of water on earth has
come to an end because ocean water has
become drinkable metals don't rust
anymore people don't have any need for
electric bulbs replacing them with
glowing wallpaper humans are steadily
becoming biotic that's not the latest
sci-fi movie we're describing it's a
very probable and very close future that
will become possible thanks to the
Wonder material called graphene but the
most amazing thing about this semi metal
of the future is the fact that you can
produce it yourself in your living room
we'll tell you how to do this a bit
later on but right now spot the red
subscription button on the screen and
press it this will take you to the
bright side of life there you'll be
greeted with hundreds of useful and cool
videos don't hesitate to ring the
notification bell that's how bright
ciders learn about daily updates on the
channel
what is graphene and why is it so
amazing one of the things that makes
graphene so cool is that it's the
thinnest material you can imagine it's
just one atom thick this means this
material is mathematically
two-dimensional and you can still hold
this single layer of atoms in your hands
doesn't that blow your mind Wow
surprisingly graphene isn't a unique or
rare substance in fact it has the same
carbon structure as the graphite you use
every day when you draw or write with
your pencil but at the same time in 0.03
inches of graphite there are about three
million graphene layers
dr. konstantin novoselov and professor
Andre Gunn discovered the wonder
material in 2004 at the University of
Manchester they were examining how
efficient graphite is as a transistor
the story goes that graphene appeared
thanks to sticky tape after professor
Guymon dr. novoselov stuck this tape to
a piece of graphite they pulled free a
single layer of the material this left
them with graphene in 2010 they were
awarded a Nobel Prize for their
invention graphene used to be incredibly
expensive to manufacture it cost a
whopping eleven hundred dollars to
produce enough graphene to cover the
head of a pin however by the end of 2015
you could by point three five ounces of
graphene for a thousand dollars even
better
due to the optimized methods of
production specialists expect the price
of this substance to reduce even more it
may eventually become as low as the cost
of the raw material graphite graphene is
incredibly stretchy it can stretch as
much as 25% of its length this material
is also really stiff actually it's the
hardest material people know about even
harder than diamonds and that says a lot
in fact nothing less than an elephant
balancing on a sharpened pencil will be
able to pierce graphene despite being
two-dimensional graphene can still be
seen and you don't even need to bother
with a microscope this single layer of
atoms is perfectly visible to the naked
eye one more great thing about graphene
is it's a relationship with electricity
this material carries electricity more
quickly more precisely and more
efficiently than any other known
material the reason is that the current
density of graphene is many million
times better than that of copper as for
its intrinsic mobility it's much better
than silicon thus electrons have no
resistance when they move through
graphene as a result people can
potentially use graphene to produce
batteries that will have ten times the
electrical retention capacity of
anything we have today one more quality
of graphene that scientists find
extremely interesting is that it expands
when cooled and shrinks when it gets
warm there are no other examples of
materials with a similar quality all
normal substances act in the opposite
way they become larger when they are
heated and smaller when they get cold
however hard you try you won't be able
to squeeze even a single atom of helium
through graphene this makes this semi
metal the most impermeable material
discovered so far consequently graphene
can function as the ideal gas detector
at the same time while atoms have
difficulty getting through graphene
there's nothing simpler for electrons
according to Professor guy that makes
this material perfect
for conducting experiments in high-speed
quantum physics graphene has huge
potential that's probably why the EU
devoted 1.3 billion to research that's
supposed to last for a decade from 2013
to 2023 this research is intended to
find out how graphene can alter the very
principles of the electronics health
construction and energy sectors
how can graphene be used there are
countless opportunities that graphene
can provide to humanity a space elevator
this idea appeared in 1979 in a sci-fi
novel by Sir Arthur Clark called
the fountain of paradise the elevator
described in the book looked like a
tower with paper-thin walls and a hollow
interior the sides were 12 miles apart
and it went 22,000 miles up the idea of
such an elevator sounds completely
outlandish but if it were built space
would become accessible and affordable
until recently the main problem has been
finding materials light enough and
strong enough to support such an
elevator however with the discovery of
graphene things may finally get off the
ground
drinkable ocean water
graphene may be the answer to the water
crisis many countries are facing if we
make membranes from graphene they would
be able to let water through while
filtering out salt at the same time this
would be a revolution in desalination
technology such membranes can also
purify water
in fact in 2018 scientists from
Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisation made
seawater drinkable after just a single
use of a particular form of graphene
called graph air dong-ha and so one of
the researchers said that this
technology can make any water drinkable
no matter how dirty it is
[Music]
super-strong body armor one layer of
graphene is impressive enough
can you imagine what you could achieve
with two layers of this super material
nothing short of incredibly strong body
armor researchers from Georgia Tech have
recently demonstrated how two atomic
layers of graphene managed to remain
intact after scientists tried to
perforate them with a diamond tip
[Music]
healthcare scientists at the University
of Illinois have discovered that
graphene can assist in detecting
cancerous cells in the body researchers
from the University of Texas have
invented temporary tattoos that are
based on graphene these tattoos are far
from a simple body decoration they can
keep track of a person's vitals
including their level of hydration and
skin temperature recharging gadgets new
batteries based on graphene will be able
to recharge incredibly quickly it will
be possible for them to go from empty to
full in just 15 minutes
what's more they can be charged more
than 3500 times that's pretty impressive
for a regular battery I can't even keep
my phone charged for a day
flexible smartphone displays if
producers start to use graphene and
gadget manufacturing we might end up
with smart phones that can bend in any
direction
one of graphene's main properties is its
flexibility thus electronics based on
graphene technology will inherit the
same trait running shoes for a new
generation such running shoes have
already been tested in the labs of the
University of Manchester they're
different from other running shoes lies
in the fact that they're rubber outsole
ZAR made with the addition of graphene
as a result they are much stretchier and
stronger than more common materials thus
such shoes will last much longer
blowing wallpaper graphene may be the
reason why light bulbs become a thing of
the past
thin glowing wallpaper with graphene
based electrode technology will provide
Pleasant and adjustable lighting for
houses in addition such lighting will
also be much more energy efficient than
modern lightbulbs a no rust world as we
have already mentioned graphene is
practically impermeable that's why just
one coating of graphene based paint will
be able to prevent rust and corrosion
copper plates covered with such paint
may even be used as containers to hold
extremely corrosive acids save hair
dyeing graphene can be used in the
beauty industry as well it will be the
perfect alternative to current hair dyes
most of which are still toxic and
damaging to hair in 2018 scientists from
Northwestern University found out that
graphene can be as effective as
permanent hair dyes without the need for
toxic molecular ingredients also unlike
other hair dyes graphene has
antibacterial thermal dissipation and
anti-static qualities the experts
sprayed a gel based on graphene oxide
onto blonde hair it was left to dry for
10 minutes the hair ended up being
covered with a graphene film that was
only 2 microns thick all the
participants reported that the color
stayed in place even after 30 washes
[Music]
can you make graphene at home well you
can potentially make graphene at home
provided you have enough time and
patience to do so you'll need several
pieces of sticky tape and a lead pencil
after you deposit a thick layer of
graphite onto a piece of paper use some
sticky tape to remove a layer of the
graphite then use the second piece of
sticky tape to remove a layer of
graphite from the first one
the third piece of sticky tape will peel
off a layer of graphite from the second
one and so on if you're patient enough
you'll notice how the layers of graphite
become thinner and thinner in the end
you're supposed to end up with a single
layer of graphite which will be our two
dimensional graphene this method might
be a little tiresome but it won a Nobel
Prize after all which use of graphene do
you find most amazing do you believe
that this material will change the
future tell us in the comments below and
if you're always ready to learn
something new and exciting remember to
give us a thumbs up this inspires us to
create new videos to make your life more
thrilling here on the bright side
you